---
layout: post
title: Applying to Internships    
---

  Landing an internship/job, as I'm sure it is for a good amount of people, has been pretty difficult. It's somewhat frustrating that opportunities to gain experience require experience that I'm looking to gain to begin with. However, I've found internship opportunities that are more focused on allowing you to show what you can do. Thankfully, I've had a startup reach out to me recently with the prospect of an internship, and I wanted to provide some insight into the process I've experienced since. 
  
# Preparation 

  The first step of the hiring process (after applying) was set to be a technical interview with one of the company's engineers. Considering this was one of my first technical interviews, I was very nervous and a bit overwhelmed in terms of where to start. I decided to ask for advice in one of the Women in Computer Science groups. A short while afterwards, someone wrote out some advice for both technical and behavioral interviews, and linked me to different resources to look into. This gave me a sense of direction that I really appreciated, and I started out with the Top Interview Questions on LeetCode. Doing some problems made me realize that it might've been a good idea to brush up on some Data Structures concepts, so I did that through a book before going back to do more problems. I practiced talking aloud as I worked through them as I read that this is a good practice to familiarize yourself with before going into a technical interview. I also got into a habit of employing what was termed REACTO in a video that I watched— Repeat, Examples, Approach, Code, Test, Optimize— while problem solving. 
  
  ## More on Reacto 
  
  *Repeat* means to repeat the question, to ensure your own understanding of the problems, and to take this as an opportunity to clarify some wording or ask questions. 
  *Examples* means to create some test cases or example input, and understand what the output should be. 
  *Approach* is to plan and communicate your approach to the problem, to allow the interviewer to hear your thoughts on what could be done to solve it. 
  *Code* is to, well, code. It is to take your solution derived in approach and write it out in code or pseudo code. 
  *Test* means to run through your code using some example input and ensure your code produces the expected output.
  *Optimize* is to then look for ways to create a more efficient time/space complexity. 
    
  I tried to remember to employ this habit as I practiced so that it would come to me easily during the interview itself. 
  
  As for more behavioral questions, which was the second step of the hiring process, I went through some common behavioral questions online, which brought forth some memories about past projects and experiences. Even though the questions they asked weren't exactly the same, I thought it was good to have had some practice vocalizing thoughts about experiences. It helped to remember them before the interview as opposed to during. 

After the two steps of the hiring process, I received an offer letter and a call from the founder. I'm excited to get some experience in an engineering position this summer, and I hope this sets the stage for experiences to come. 
    
