---
layout: post
title: Functional Reactive Programming 
---

As part of an extra project I've done for this course, I picked up on some Elm, a bleeding edge language used for declaratively creating web browser-based graphical user interfaces. It's purely functional, and is developed with emphasis on usability, performance, and robustness. 

Now, as new as Elm was to me in terms of syntax and semantics, the functional programming paradigm was new to me as well. I thought I'd share some information I found useful to me in terms of understanding this paradigm, particularly regarding a sect of the paradigm called *Functional Reactive Programming* (FRP). 

The explanation I found to be most helpful explained FRP by splitting it into its parts— Functional Programming, and Reactive Programming. 

*Reactive programming*, as opposed to proactive programming, relies more on listening for a signal to act than it does on constantly pushing new states onto an object. For instance, given a lightbulb and its affiliated switch, in proactive terms, the switch is constantly pushing new states to the bulb based on its current state, and the bulb is modified accordingly. In reactive terms, on the other hand, the lightbulb listens to the state of the switch, which is now observable to the bulb, and changes its state based on the switch’s state. In code, reactive programming makes for a much cleaner and modifiable program, which is even more valuable when a UI is involved. 

*Functional programming* focuses on the use of pure functions— functions that take immutable input and return immutable output so as to prevent issues with side effects. Programs are extremely flexible in the sense that functions can be used as input to other functions, allowing a single function greater capabilities. 
  
Now, putting it all together, Functional Reactive Programming can be summarized as reactive streams combined with functional operators— it allows for modularization of code and a greater sense of control over how streams interact with each other. Having a much better understanding of the paradigm, I was interested in its benefits over others. 

Below I've listed a couple of FRP's advantages: 

